kb(Editor): Add templates (#1250)
telerik/blazor-docs: knowledge-base/editor-add-text-templates.md

---
title: Add text templates in Editor
description: How to insert text templates in Editor?
type: how-to
page_title: Add text templates in Editor
slug: editor-kb-add-text-templates
position: 
tags: editor, text, template, insert, add
ticketid: 1589596
res_type: kb
---

## Environment
<table>
	<tbody>
		<tr>
			<td>Product</td>
			<td>Editor for Blazor</td>
		</tr>
	</tbody>
</table>

## Description

Is there a way to insert templated text in the Editor?

I want to have a tool that prefills various templates in the Editor. How to achieve this?

## Solution

> You can achieve the desired result by creating a custom tool that programmatically changes the Editor value (inserts the desired templated text in the Editor).

Reviewer: Every reference to a feature or API member should be a link. Use simpler sentences.

```suggestion
Create a [custom tool]({%slug editor-custom-tools%}) that programmatically changes the Editor value (inserts the desired templated text in the Editor).
```

> 1. [Create custom tool]({%slug editor-custom-tools%}). If you want to include more than one template option, you may consider a [DropDownList]({%slug components/dropdownlist/overview%}) component as per the example below. Thus, the user will be able to easily select one of the suggested templates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. [Create a custom tool]({%slug editor-custom-tools%}). If you want to include more than one template option, consider a [DropDownList]({%slug components/dropdownlist/overview%}), as per the example below. Thus, users will be able to easily select one of the suggested templates.
```

> 1. Provide a colection of your templates to the `Data` parameter of the DropDownList. The example below shows how you can use a complex model for the templates. The DropDownList only uses an `Id` and `Title` to show the available templates to the user. Once the user selects the desired template, you may retrieve its content from the database, for example. The key part is that the content of the template should be provided to the Editor as `string`, so the component can render it.

Reviewer: LInk DDL Data Binding article

> 1. Handle the [`ValueChanged`]({%slug components/dropdownlist/events%}#valuechanged) event of the DropDownList to get the template value and update the Editor value. You may add the template value to the Editor or replace the whole content depending on the exact desired result.

Reviewer: It may be better to not apply the selected value to the DropDownList. Currently, the user has no easy way to add the same template two times.

````CSHTML
@using Telerik.Blazor.Components.Editor

<TelerikEditor @bind-Value="@EditorValue"
               Tools="@Tools">
    <EditorCustomTools>
        <EditorCustomTool Name="Templates">
            <TelerikDropDownList Data="@Templates"
                                 Value="@SelectedTemplateId"
                                 ValueChanged="@((int TemplateId) => OnTemplateSelected(TemplateId))"
                                 ValueExpression="@(() => SelectedTemplateId)"
                                 DefaultText="Select template"
                                 ValueField="Id"
                                 TextField="Title"
                                 Width="200px">
            </TelerikDropDownList>
        </EditorCustomTool>
    </EditorCustomTools>
</TelerikEditor>

@code {

>     private string EditorValue { get; set; }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    private string EditorValue { get; set; } = "<p>Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit.</p><p>Phasellus ornare fermentum ultrices.</p>";
```

    private int SelectedTemplateId { get; set; }

    private List<TemplateModel> Templates { get; set; } = new List<TemplateModel>();

    private void OnTemplateSelected(int TemplateID)
    {
        SelectedTemplateId = TemplateID;

        TemplateModel SelectedTemplate = Templates.FirstOrDefault(x => x.Id == TemplateID);

        EditorValue += SelectedTemplate.Content;
    }

    protected override async Task OnInitializedAsync()
    {
        Tools.Add(new CustomTool("Templates"));

>         Templates = new List<TemplateModel>()

Reviewer: Add 1-2 inline templates as well.
